123456789 123456789 123456789 123456789 123456789 123456789 123456789 12345678

Won Adventurous Research funding as part of a team of three other researchers.
The proposed Personal Wizards system learns procedures demonstrated on top
of a GUI.  This technology has potential to reduce the costs broadly of 
servicing and maintaining software within IBM and for its customers.
*  Our proposal was the only proposal out of 15 that was funded
   (a second proposal of the 15 still has the potential for funding).

Demonstrated effective learning performance.  Empirically tested learning 
performance as function of training set size and procedure complexity on 
synthetically generated data.  Core system developed by team more than 
six months ahead of agreed AR milestones.

SERVICE
Instructor for course "ELEN E6880, Statistical Pattern Recognition" Spring.
*  This is a graduate course in the Electrical Engineering program at 
   Columbia University.
*  It is in my area of expertise (Machine Learning); it was broadcast 
   to Columbia students worldwide.

NEWLY INITIATED
I have been Invited as Area Chair for two areas for the International 
Conference of Machine Learning (ICML).
*  I have in turn invited six researchers to serve as reviewer in these areas.
*  This is the primary conference in my area, Machine Learning.

Submitted proposal for funding from Autonomic Computing Technology Institute.
*  We proposed to employ the Personal Wizards technology on the Autonomic 
   Computing Console.









CROSS ORGANIZATION
The Adventurous Research funding is a direct result of cross organizational 
synergies developed over several years.  The proposal was developed by myself
and three other researchers from four distant research groups 
(our management chains meet at Paul Horn).

COMMUNITY BUILDING
I have always focused on the broad use of Machine Learning in IBM research--
particularly service tutorials that provide time efficient training in 
Machine Learning techniques aimed at non-machine learning researchers.  
I actively make these efforts available to the worldwide IBM research 
community by providing online access through mailing lists, website, and 
FTP access to talk videos.  This year:
*  I presented in and organized tutorial series over 11 weeks on Machine 
   Learning techniques.
*  I hosted two learning tutorials by Gerry Tesauro and John Langford.
*  I have been an active member of the AI PIC (organizing talks and meetings).
*  I have been an active member of the Machine Learning reading group 
   (as active participant and presenter).


UNIVERSITY RELATIONS
Accepted as Campus Relationship Manager (CRM) for Northwestern University.
*  Primary representative for Northwestern University.
*  Responsible for recruiting at Northwestern.  This include managing 
   relations with both students and faculty, for monitoring graduating 
   student population, and for providing technical seminars at Northwestern.

Taught course a Columbia.  During course I encouraged two students to 
apply at Watson.










Developed the core alignment/generalization technology underlying the project.
Applied my background in adaptive biological alignment algorithms to the 
problem of aligning multiple user execution traces. 
*  Vittorio Castelli and I developed the alignment generalization engine.
*  We also developed the interpreter that generates parametric families of 
   procedure generators.  These families allow us to measure system 
   performance on randomly generated procedure generators as a function 
   of relevant complexity parameters (e.g. as a function of average 
   procedure branching factor)

I managed the announcements and an extensive website for a Machine Learning Tutorial Series based on our Columbia course.
*  Website was updated weekly with abstracts and slides for all lectures.
*  Facilitated worldwide access to series with mailing list, FTP access to 
   videos, eSeminars.

PATENTS AND PUBLICATIONS
IBM Journal Article  "Cross training and its application to skill mining"  
D. A. Oblinger, M. Reid, M. Brodie, and R. de Salvo Braz 
Vol 41, Num 3, Pg. 449  (2002)
*  This article documents our success in identifying human expertise based 
   on their email correspondence.  

PATENTS
  YOR8-2002-0006 - Artificial pain/anxious reliever (RATED PUBLISH)
  YOR8-2001-0599 - Voiceless Messaging Telephone System (UNDER EVALUATION)
DISCLOSURES
  YOR8-2002-0579 - Alignment and generalization of procedure traces
  YOR8-2002-0504 - Method and apparatus for constructing user interfaces on 
                   top of existing applications by demonstration.  
  YOR8-2002-0510 - Method and apparatus for learning-by-example and 
                   disseminating procedures for desk side support.

NEW IMPACT
The "At a Glance" reading data visualizer I developed for Watch Me Read is 
being adapted for use adult reading program "Reading Recognition."
