
Bill,

It's been a little while since we last spoke, so I wanted to touch base
and give you an update on my job search.

I have three final interviews in the next several weeks and I hope to
be able to make a decision next month.  I was not prepared for the
time and energy drain of the interviewing process!  It was fun, but 
I am glad to be getting it behind me.

I have a fair understanding of the companies I have yet to interview,
as well as those I have already interviewed--it's already becoming
clear which locations are likely to be a good fit.  T.J. Watson is
definitely a good fit.  I found the work at T.J Watson to be very
interesting and the environment quite exciting.  Further, the people I
spoke with at IBM were without question more intelligent and forward
thinking than any other group I have or probably will interview with.

Thus, even before finishing my interviewing, I am looking more into
the details of working at IBM.  In fact, about two weeks ago I had a
really enjoyable conversation with Peter Fairweather.  He answered a
lot of questions about possible career paths associated with the
position.

I have also contacted several acquaintances that live in Westchester
County.  They had very nice things to say about the area.  Their only
real criticism was the cost of living in the area.  I have looked at
the cost of living adjustment, as well as the cost of buying a house
in Westchester County, and both are indeed high.

While IBM's compensation is not totally out of line with my other
offers, once you factor in the cost of living in Westchester County the
difference starts to become significant.  This leads me to wonder what
flexibility exists in this position's compensation?

I have given some thought to living in White Plains.  Is that
really feasible, in terms of cost and travel time?

As decision making time draws near I will probably pester you with
even more questions. In any case I will keep you posted on my progress.

Thanks for your time,

Dan


