SIEGE


----------------------------------------

It seems there ought to be a way forward here:
It seems that my main concern is that even if I am committed to our project
in the end I will not get 26%.
It seems that your main concerns are that:
(1) even if I could kick butt and take names that I not be / remain committed
    to making this thing work no matter what.
(2) somehow my ability to contribute willl turn out to be much less that we
    both anticipate.


Well the only way address your first concern is to simply start doing it.
showing you committed action on my part for SIEGE.  Of course you would need
to see this for the first years, but as long as you said to me:
   "Ok Dan, this is great.  As long as we keep up with the energy/action and all 
    the things you are doing, I am satisfied with number 1.

Number (2) is one that we both want to verify.  I need to *do* some stuff that
is or at least look like it will be successful.  I want to do at least part of this
before I leave DARPA.  I know this is going to be painful.  I am challenged to keep
up now.  But there is no choice, we need some evidence, and we need incoming funds
for me before I join.  


    









What Dan wants to see:  
- Want to be a retro-active founding parner, who is trading half a decade 
  (likely more) of life and gets a known percentage of the company we are 
  building during this time.  Happy to accept .50 on each $1 Jason receives
  in the end as long as:
- I leave DARPA mostly having proven to Jason that as long as I keep up 
  what I am doing that I am worth the risk of 26% equity
  e.g. I don't mind being required to keep up the energy (as assessed by Jason)
       but I worry about a later decisions that Jason would rather give that 26% to 
       26 justins, or that he can do it nearly as well by himself.
       I worry that I may be contributing (particularly in IP) in ways that
       are not generating revenue.
       I worry that I don't know now, which of the ways I could contribute will
       be working out, and that if I pick wrong targets or wrong measurables I 
       will be screwed.


In 

  Would feel safer and more effective throwing energy into writing proposals, 
  meeting customers, courting/hiring folks, managing projects, generating patents, 
  dreaming up schemes to reuse IP created on existing projects 

What Jason wants to see:
- Dan as a partner, who is 'in it' with him.
  (prove it NOW, before while at DARPA.  Keep proving it for first years)
- Want to see that Dan can do the many parts of being that partner
  - Patents, IP, Project designs
  - Winning contracts
  - Helping to guide / managing projects toward downstream value
  - Spread goodness, energy, and ideas into many (nearly all) places where SIEGE is playing






-------------------------------------------








----------------------------------------




- Feedback


* 15
* 20%

NOW OR NEVER -- pyschologically I am loosing energy based on this lack of committed action.
It is not an ultimatum, just a declaration of the reality of the human brain:
We either need to pychologically commit ourselves to a partnership now, or it really is 
just never going to happen.

A BIGGER DEAL (BOTH PLUS AND MINUS) FOR ME -- but pretty important for you too.
Small companies need a strong center, and they need the economies of scale of more 
than one power house gnerators.  If we are two separate companies trying to make it, we
are both weaker than if we are one comapny trying to make it.  And at our size this is
a massive effect.  For me, you double my size.  For you it is less clear, you have others
besides me.  

Still every small buisness owner I talk with the message is the same:
You cannot expect to just get those folks that grow your buisness.  Many will
provide value, but your buisness will be limited by your ability to find those who
can grow it.  This is true for you as much as me.

I think it is easy for you at this moment to feel that you are getting the support
needed to grow the buisness from those you are hiring.  If you are, then it seems 
likely it is a fluke.  In general all I speak to agree that finding those self starting
folks is just nearly impossible.  If it were not, then everybody would be starting 
successful buisnesses.

MY CREDS MORE THAN SOLID, THEY BEYOND ANY ON YOUR HORIZON -- Really I don't *know* that my presence will double your buisness.  
It is a daunting thing to say.  The future is just too unpredictable in so many ways it
is not worth enumerating.  What I will say:
Without ego, I want to state this several key measure put me on top as compared to 
anyone on our radars (including you):
  -- ablitity to win confidence in a verbal presentation of an idea
     (expressed repeatedly at all levels of DARPA old and new leadership)
     this is stated in comarative terms against all PMs in IPTO and across DARPA
  -- ability to sell big ideas
     - as measured by my new starts
     - as measured by IPTO relance when creating new 
  -- abiltity to rapidly generating novel ideas

BUT YOU DONT NEED ME -- Maybe you do, buisness fluctuations are massive relative to the size 
of a small buisness.  Another powerhouse at the center could be the different.  But early 
signs are really positive, that you will not collapse w/o another like me.  If I were you
I would be optomistic and assume you will make it.  With me you could reasonably loose something like
%15 percent on the down size (assuming I still grow the buisness but not as much as I cost.
On the other side if the buisness is eventually limited by leadership and by creativity then I could duplicate 
your efforts.


THE PROPOSED PLAN --  In year one I acheive at least 12% of the buisness.  In year two I acheive at least 20%

YOU WILL NEED TO DECIDE WITH IMPERFECT INFO -- You can gain and loose either way you go.  And I have 
decided that I can 








MATH:


  Jason:   X


  .76 * J =  .50 * ( J + D )

  .25 * J = D

 .25 



