

Steven Goldby
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
MDL Information Systems, Inc. 

September 29, 1997

[-1][-2][-3]Dear Mr. Goldby,

As I said in our brief discussion at the beckman bioinformatics symposium I will be graduating this year with a Ph.D. in Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence) from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.  Over the past two years I have worked closely with Shankar Subramaniam.  He believes my skills in both datamining and bioinformatics form an ideal match with work done at MDL Information Systems.  Indeed it is Shankar's strong opinion regarding MDL that initially fostered my interest in employment there.  I anticipate making an employment decision in October.
Through my graduate studies I have gained considerable experience in bioinformatics and machine learning.  My dissertation, "An application of Plausible Inference (a framework for knowledge-intensive learning) to the problem of Hidden Homology Modeling" was carried out under the direction of Shankar Subramaniam and Gerald DeJong.  In this work I studied how partial expert models can be utilized to inform automated prediction algorithms.  In particular I encoded existing steric and chemical theories and used them to learn very selective fold class predictors.  For this I wrote parallel alignment and learning algorithms for the CM5 supercomputer here at NCSA.  The long-term goal of the work is to provide general tools for automated refinement of partial expert models.  My dissertation has afforded me a strong understanding of not only protein specific literature, but also an understanding of the physics and chemistry that underlies it.
In additional to the technical positions I have held, I have fulfilled a variety of roles in both academic and professional settings.  Most recently I served as an AI consultant within a biologists' research group.  Together we encoded our intuitions as testable, computational models of protein folding.  Also, while at the University of Illinois, I collaborated with a number of faculty on various publications and successful grant proposals.  At IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, I worked with a second-line manager on the design of an expert system shell; part of my duties included presentations of initial versions of this design to the managers in charge of its implementation.  At Ohio State University I enjoyed teaching several university-level courses, one of which I designed, and was subsequently invited by the chair of the department to teach an accredited off-campus programming course.  The body of experience I have accumulated affords me the written, oral, interpersonal, and organizational skills essential for continued personal growth and far-reaching contributions at MDL.
I have long been interested in the problem of bridging the gulf between existing human expertise and existing computational models.  Through the experiences outlined above, I have determined that my enthusiasm and ability also lie in (1) working as a specialist within a larger group, and (2) designing and coding elegant, practical interfaces for large software systems, and (3) working within biotechnology or pharmaceuticals.  Thus, my ideal position involves both research and development on prediction/recognition algorithms, and  involves close collaboration with professionals in a number of scientific fields.  Additionally, this position provides some opportunity to publish, and has the potential for continued professional growth, perhaps culminating in a technical management/software architect role.  A position with MDL affords many of these opportunities and matches my technical qualifications
Please do not hesitate to contact if there is an additional information I can provide.  Thank you for your time and consideration.


Sincerely,





Daniel A. Oblinger
[-1]% New OBJECTIVE
% "Expert knowledge of..."
% New activities in activities section
% Check dates on NKU scholarships
% Check all dashes
% ADD Professional organizations
% Get location of AIPS
% 
% Marsha:
% 	Place for TJ Watson.  None of the others have place.
% 	Periods at end of phrase entries?
% 
% 
% Inf. per Company:
% - Company name
% - Person name
% - Company address
% - Data mining connection
% - Other connecting sentences

[-2]Intro.
+  Ph.D. in artificial intelligence from University of Illinois.
+  interested in full-time employment for fall of 1997

Credentials
+  "Plausible Inference: An knowledge-intensive, inductive approach to
    domain modeling"
-  Approach to machine learning that uses rules (written) to 
-  Applied learning model to the grand challenge prob. of protein. str. prediction
-  Learning model is implemented in parallel on a 512 node CM5 supercomputer.
X  15,000 lines of C and LISP.
- appropriate for tough domains w. knowledge

> Technical: (broad technical background)
- B.S. in Mathematics
- Fairly large applications: handicap, thesis editor/programming environment.
- Low-level applications including: many digital and analog circuits, 
  x-windows, DOS, UNIX

> Interpersonal: Teaching/presentation. T.J. Watson

> My career objective
  - long been to do research in machine learning.
  - Through working at T.J. Watson and as a consultant on protein
  str. prediction I found my enthusiasm and ability also lie in
  (1) working as a specialist within a larger group, and
  (2) synthesizing elegant, practical interfaces and designs for
  large software systems.

  Thus the ideal position would involve the research issues surrounding
  a concrete data mining application or product.  It would require me
  to provide expertise in machine 
  learning within a larger team.  This job would have the
  potential for publication, and the potential for growth toward
  technical management/software architect type position.

  A position with XXX-company provides many of these opportunities.
  ...

  


[RESEARCH|DEVELOPMENT], DATA-MINING, [CONSULTANT], [PROTEIN]


Fit  (Number of things makes good match) 
-  My consulting experience in bio is similar to the role of data mining
   consultant:
-  For two years I worked closely with a group of biologists encoding
   expertise foreign to myself into a framework foreign to them.
-  Enjoyed/excelled at: selling model \& arriving at common understanding.


Communicate Skills:  
   Technical, Designing, Programming, 
   Interpersonal: presentation(selling), communication, writing, management
   Eager/hard-working
}

[-3]OUT-TAKES
I analyzed commonly occurring domain expertise to arrive at these particular form of structured knowledge.

