Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro, Ph.D.
Director of Applied Research
Geneve Consulting Group
545 Concord Ave.
Cambridge, MA 02138
May 23, 1997

Dear Dr. Piatetsky-Shapiro,

I will be graduating in October 1997 with a Ph.D. in Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence) from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.  I am interested in employment at Geneve Consulting, and will available for full-time work immediately after graduation.  I anticipate making an employment decision before July 15.
Through my graduate studies I have gained considerable experience in data mining and its application to important practical learning tasks.  My dissertation, "Plausible Inference: A knowledge-intensive, inductive approach to domain modeling,"  was carried out under the direction of Gerald DeJong.  Plausible Inference (PI) is an inductive learning framework that relies on several forms of structured knowledge.  PI employs this domain expertise as a strong, problem-specific bias through which it induces predictive models of complex domains.  In my research, I applied PI to a difficult biological task—protein structure prediction—by implementing a parallel version of PI in a combination of C and LISP, which ran on a CM5 supercomputer.  My dissertation serves as a strong foundation for further work bridging research and development, particularly in the application of learning/mining techniques to other areas.
In additional to the technical positions I have held, I have fulfilled a variety of roles in both academic and professional settings.  Most recently I served as an AI consultant to a biologists' research group.  Together we encoded their intuitions as testable, computational models of protein folding.  Also, while at the University of Illinois, I collaborated with a number of faculty on various publications and successful grant proposals.  At IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, I worked with a second-line manager on the design of an expert system shell; part of my duties included presentations of initial versions of this design to the managers in charge of its implementation.  At Ohio State University I enjoyed teaching several university-level courses, one of which I designed, and was subsequently invited by the chair of the department to teach an accredited off-campus programming course.  The body of experience I have accumulated affords me the written, oral, interpersonal, and organizational skills essential for continued personal growth and far-reaching contributions at Geneve.
My career objective has long been to work in AI research and development.  Through the experiences outlined above, I have determined that my enthusiasm and ability also lie in (1) working as a specialist within a larger group, and (2) designing and coding elegant, practical interfaces and organizations for large software systems.  Thus, my ideal position involves both research and development on concrete applications perhaps in the area of data mining/machine learning.  It also involves close collaboration with professionals in other fields and companies.  Additionally, this has the potential for continued professional growth, perhaps culminating in a technical management/software architect role.  A position with Geneve Consulting affords many of these opportunities and matches my technical qualifications.  Your work on data mining tools and your role as consultant for other companies closely match my skills and interests.
Many skills (verbal communication, programming, etc.) are difficult to quantify, yet are crucial to job performance.  A short phone interview is often the best way to ascertain if my skills in these areas fit your needs.  Please contact me at your convenience.  Thank you for your time and consideration.


Sincerely,





Daniel A. Oblinger
