=== OUT OF DATE ===

DAN OBLINGER, Ph.D.
San Francisco, CA 94110 
415-494-9499 
oblinger@gmail.com 
linkedin.com/in/danieloblinger

                           TECHNICAL BUSINESS EXECUTIVE  |  RESEARCHER & SCIENTIST
          Navigating the interplay between scaled science, emerging tech, and commercialization

Machine learning, AI, and robotics researcher turned Silicon Valley technology leader—shepherding software technologies from greenfield, ivory-tower porotypes to the living room. 

                                                Career at a glance:

* Technology & Product Development: Inventing, managing development, or productizing 21 AI technologies—ranging from robotics, machine learning, and computer vision, to NLP, programming by demonstration, and cyber defense.

Includes commercializing software across $2B in IoT devices, and both low- and high-margin industries and products.

* Organization Building & Team Leadership: Creating 3 organizations across 5 continents, comprising as many as 8 teams and 12 direct reports, and up to 60 PhDs and engineers, with oversight of R&D funding budgets exceeding $200M.

* Machine Learning Field Influence & Expansion: Envisioning and driving research roadmaps for the ML field—funding and overseeing program performance for 300-plus-member engineering and research organizations, with collaborators including Andrew Ng, Stuart Russell, and Tom Mitchell.

* Technical Contributions to the field of Machine Learning: Accelerating the subfield of AI / ML by hosting, funding, or chairing 20+ academic research and industry conferences / convenings (e.g., NIST TREC / TAC; Human Understandable M, AAAI) for 20 to 120 attendees.

Author on 25 peer-reviewed papers (PBD, AI / ML), 22 patents, and 35+ presentations, including keynotes and invited appearances. Developed and taught graduate level ML course at Columbia University, Department of Electrical Engineering. See LinkedIn for addendum.




BOARD & ADVISORY ROLES:

Ruly, San Francisco, CA, Automation & AI Advisor, Feb 2014 to Nov 2014
TechnoTherapy, Washington, D.C., Board Member, Jan 2014 to present
NIST / TREC, Washington, D.C., TAC-KBP Track Advisor, Mar 2009 to Oct 2011
DARPA / IPTO, Washington, D.C., Senior Advisory Group (SAG) Member, Dec 2009 to Oct 2011
Northwestern University, Electrical & Computer Science Dept, Advisory Board Member, Nov 2003 to Jul 2005




EXPERIENCE:



ANALYTICS FIRE
Palo Alto, CA
Co-founder & CTO
Jul 2013 to present

Recruited to co-found a boutique consultancy built to help multibillion-dollar companies design, develop, and productize AI, analytics, IoT, and infrastructure solutions. Twelve clients include Arthrex, Boston Scientific, Enphase, iCracked, and SunPower.

Lead and advise 60-member workforce across 45+ software and data science projects, including: 

* ML / Vision-based Installation Designer > Automated Sales Channel: Co-designed technical solution and advised on 6-month research, creation, and productization of custom geometric reasoning- / deep learning-based solution.

First-of-its-kind sales tool used satellite data to construct consumer roofs and enabled client to scale its one-touch sales-and-design tool—enabling 30-second processing of physical measurements, pricing, and consumer savings, and eliminating human-in-the-loop solar installation design.

* Omnibus Solution for a New Sales Channel > Residential Solar: Directed 10-personyear team on 3-year greenfield-to-operations of computational infrastructure (omnibus system), including channel-specific workflows, analytics, and customer-facing interfaces.

Fortune 1000 client attributed custom software as “the largest single driver of new revenue growth in 2017 Q3”—enabling client to penetrate and scale in a high-margin industry.

* Scaled IoT & Infrastructure > Commercial Clean Energy: Shepherding the company’s greenfielding, build, launch, and operation of complex software ecosystem controlling $2B of a $5B client’s core assets (100,000+ clean energy devices), comprising firmware, dynamically throttled multi-layer networking. 

* Commercial Medical Device > Connected Robotic Surgery: Built software and infrastructure enabling video connectivity for a medical device company’s telerobotically operated surgical unit.




AEOLUS ROBOTICS
San Francisco, CA 
CTO & Head of U.S. Operations
Oct 2016 to Jul 2018

Tapped as employee #1—following Martian Robotics acquisition—to reimagine the IP as an eldercare robot, ultimately deployed through an exclusive relationship with a ¥2,950B Japanese conglomerate with 1,920 rooms.

* Human-like Elder-care Robot: Directed evolution of Martian Robotics IP, creating a dexterous robot prototype capable of manipulating human tools. 

- Led 13-month “Hail Mary” build of team, robot, and technology to demo prototype at CES 2017—helping secure $16M in follow-on funding. 

- Built 60-member, 8-discipline follow-the-sun HW / SW R&D organization (40+ PhDs, 20+ engineers) remotely distributed across 6 continents. 

- Identified, co-negotiated, and awarded a $2M collaboration with University of Vienna—a Top 10 institution in automated robotic grasping and unconstrained (non-factory) settings. 

- Built 3-person recruiting team and a scaled 13-step hiring process to handle 2,000+ applicants, as well as targeted recruiting of university partners (e.g., University of Vienna).




MARTIAN ROBOTS
San Francisco, CA 
CTO & Co-founder
Nov 2015 to Oct 2016

Recruited by Martian founder (former CEO of Neato Robotics) to support the vision of bringing general purpose robots into the home worldwide. 

* Robotic with a Dexterous Arm: Led 13-member team in inventing robotic arm to “clean any bathroom surface” using adaptive AI, advanced planning, and sensor feedback loops creating close-in controlled wiping. Robot enabled gear-box designs with low-precision encoders in lieu of expensive hardware. 

- Developed a novel topological transform to map any 3D surface onto the 2D plane. 

- Designed specialized arm motion-planning and control feedback to achieve motions while maintaining programming surface pressures and orientations. 

- Built prototype to achieve 10x to 100x cost reduction, prioritizing low-cost development enabling mass market retail price point within scaled industrial budgets.

Drew on specialized planning approaches, visual servoing, and AI compensation for low fidelity sensing (e.g., motion by feel).




PAY BY GROUP
San Francisco, CA 
Co-founder & CTO
Oct 2011 to Jul 2013

Tapped to reimagine consumer transaction flow for group purchases on travel and retail websites—building PayByGroup’s payments / ecommerce engine for multi-stage recovery for contingent purchases. Technology was used to secure $3.2M and expand into vacation rental, sporting event, and e-commerce sales verticals.




DARPA 
Washington, D.C. 
Program Manager
Aug 2005 to Oct 2011

Recruited to imagine, build, and evolve pioneering AI and ML at the forefront of innovation for private industry, academia, and the U.S. military—serving as one of 130 program managers collectively adjudicating research award applicants and managing ~250 R&D programs.

* Research Portfolio Vision, Strategy & Prioritization: Appointed by IPTO’s director to serve on the 9-member Senior Advisory Board—identifying IPTO’s high-visibility cognitive / computation priorities, along with budgetary justification delivered biannually to the U.S. Congress. Hand-picked by the agency director as one of two PMs briefing Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates.

* Global Advancement in AI & ML: Owned a $200M+ technical research portfolio to advance the machine learning field worldwide—funding and overseeing 100+ scientists. 

Examples:

Three AI / ML innovation programs ($50M to $125M projects):

- Machine Reading Program (MRP): Aimed $125M at developing fused ML and NLP in mapping unstructured information into structured data—fueling a field-changing revolution in NLP. MRP tech is core to the IBM Watson system that beat world Jeopardy champion, Ken Jennings.

- Bootstrapped Learning Program: Set the stage for ongoing transformation from statistical ML to human-like, multi-paradigm ML—closing the gap between ML and human learning.

- Transfer Learning Program: Extended ML to incorporate learning from related but distinct tasks. Ex 1: Transferring learning to recognize football plays into executing them. Ex 2: Recognizing an object into robotically manipulating that object.

Eleven early-stage AI / ML / Cyber programs ($500K to $5M projects), including Attacking Time (cyber program), and Never-ending Learning (statistical NLP program).




IBM TJ WATSON RESEARCH
Washington, D.C. 
Research Staff Member
Mar 1998 to Jul 2005

Recruited from grad school to apply ML and analytics to K-12 developmental reading comprehension. Developed 6 technologies and secured 29 patents and peer reviewed publications. Highlights:

* Personal Wizards > ML + PBD Algorithm Development: Made large-scale Programming by Demonstration (PBD) practical—developing core automated scripting algorithm that earned best runner up award and was integrated into the IBM Rational software suite (a $2B acquisition in 2002).

- Algorithmic Research: Combined sequence alignment background in bioinformatics with structure-based learning algorithms to learn structured scrips with loops and conditionals. Won 12 FTE-years of “Adventurous Research” (IBM funding; <5% acceptance rate). 

* Read Me Read > Speech Data Mining: Developed speech analytics for reading tutor rolled out across 5,000+ elementary schools nationwide as part of IBM’s Reinventing Education Program, and later extended as a core tool of IBM’s philanthropic ESL programs nationwide. 




COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
New York, NY 
Adjunct Professor 
Jan 2003 to May 2003

Appointed during IBM tenure to serve as co-instructor for “ELEN E 6880 Statistical Pattern Recognition,” teaching cutting edge of ML at Columbia University, helping cultivate the field of AI and IBM’s research scientist pipeline.




EDUCATION:

Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, 1998
Thesis: “Plausible Inference: A knowledge-intensive, inductive approach to domain modeling.” 

M.S., Computer Science, Ohio State University, 1989 – summa cum laude

B.S., Mathematics and Computer Science (double major), Northern Kentucky University, 1987 – summa cum laude

Top Secret SCI Clearance (inactive)


