
Bill,

It's been a little while since we last spoke, so I wanted to touch base
and give you an update on my job search.

I have three final interviews in the next several weeks and I hope to
be able to make a decision next month.  I was not prepared for the
time and energy drain of the interviewing process!  It was fun, but 
I am glad to be getting it behind me.

I have a fair understanding of the companies I have yet to interview,
as well as those I have already interviewed--it's already becoming clear
which locations are likely to be a good fit.  T.J. Watson is
definitely a good fit.  I like the work being done, I like the
environment, and the people I spoke with at IBM were without question
more intelligent and forward thinking than any other group I have or
probably will interview with.

Thus even before finishing my interviewing, I am looking more into the
details of working at IBM.  In fact, about a week ago I had a really
enjoyable talk with Peter Fairweather.  To be honest I was a bit
nervous about calling my potential manager's manager, but he is so
easy to talk with, I was quickly at ease.  He answered alot of questions
about possible career paths associated with the position.

I have also contacted several friends of friends that live in Westchester
County.  Both had really good things to say about the area.  Their only
real critism was the cost of living in the area.  I have looked the
cost of living adjustment, and cost of buying a house in Westchester
County, and both are indeed high.

While IBM's compensation is not totally out of line with my other
offers, once you factor in the cost of living in Westchester County the
difference starts to become significant.  This leads me to wonder what
flexibility exists in this postion's compensation?

I have given some thought to living in White Plains.  Is that
really feasible, in terms of cost and travel time?

As decision making time draws near I will probably pester you with
even more questions, in any case I will keep you posted on my progress.

Thanks for your time,

Dan


