ABSTRACT

THE OBJECTIVE is a programmable process for universal 3-D placement of a fixed set of components on a nano-scale grid.

THE APPROACH RELIES ON TWO PROPERTIES 
(1) Pairs of functional components from this fixed set will auto-bind in
    unique, rigid, space filling forms. 
(2) Groups of bound components can be made to match a single unique docking
    arrangement by correct ordering of "inverse" components.

These two properties permit the addressing of specific components to specific 3D-locations in an evolving 3D-Form by simply controlling the order in which the components are mixed and allowed to bind.  The novel idea here is that arbitrary 3D-configurations can be programmed by controlling which elements are fed into each leaf of an large tree of successive aggregation reactions-the shape of the tree and elements at the leaves "program" the resulting 3D-shape.  The shape constructed is a nano scale shape, but the tree programmed to create this shape has features that are all much larger than the nano-scale, and are constructible using lithography techniques.


INTRODUCTION

This is a method for programming arbitrary 3-D arrangements of a fixed set of functional components.  The method relies on aggregation between specific subcomponents yielding a more complex component, which in turn is employed as a subcomponent in subsequent aggregation. This aggregation is iterated many times yielding an exponential growth in the volume and complexity of the resulting components.

At each step in the aggregation we ensure that there exists exactly one possible binding conformation for the ensemble of subcomponents. By ensuring this is the case we can map each leaf of this immense tree of merging components to a specific location within the eventual 3-D structure.  By controlling the type of component fed into the tree at that location, we control the type of component that is eventually placed in the corresponding location within the 3-D structures constructed by the tree.  Thus we use the term "programming" to refer to setting, which components are fed into the tree and thus what 3-D configuration is generated by the tree.

ADDRESSING 
Central to the process above is the assumption that at each of the many aggregations required to construct an arbitrary configuration there exists a unique binding configuration for each of the constituent components.  This is accomplished in two ways.  First it is accomplished by arranging the aggregations steps to occur in many physically separated aggregation chambers arranged in a tree (more generally a directed-acyclic-graph).  Thus incorrect bindings are prohibited by simply prohibiting sub-components from being exposed to others except those it is specifically slated to bind with.  The second method of control is to use the sequence of constituents in each sub-component to limit the possible bindings between them.  Both of these methods of control are designed to yield one possible binding between subcomponents--one "address" if you will for a sub-component within an ensemble.  By repeatedly ensuring a unique binding at all levels we obtain a unique mapping or address in the final structure for each leaf in the tree, thus we use the term "addressing" to refer to the process of ensuring that there is a unique binding conformation at each step.  Ensuring unique addressing is hard, indeed much of this document will be focused on how the addressing is accomplished for aggregations at different levels of complexity and along different physical axes of the growing crystal.

SEPERATION BASED ADDRESSING (THE AGGREGATION STEP) 
The first type of addressing uses physical separation to ensure unique binding. This is accomplished by having self-catalyzing aggregation reactions occur in many physically separated aggregation tanks.  These relations are occurring in a fluid that moves only up the tree and is sufficient to ensure that bound components cannot move back down the tree to previous aggregation tanks.  Further as you will see in the aggregation section these tanks must also ensure that no uncombined subcomponents are permitted to flow beyond the tank until bound.

SURFACE BASED ADDRESSING 
The second type of addressing listed above is to ensure that the subcomponents in an aggregation can only bind in a unique conformation.  In general reasoning about possible binding conformations is extremely complex, and would require considerable analysis at each step to ensure this particular set of subcomponents would have a unique binding.  Worse yet, the resulting component will have to also be constrained to have yet another unique binding at the next level and so on for many subsequent steps.  Viewed in this way the problem seems over constrained, or at least intractable.  To avoid this rely on a small handful of unique binding pairs, and build strings of them that can only match strings of the anti-pairs, much in the way that DNA pairs.  There are two important differences to this pairing.  First our components bind rigidly in chains so that we do not need to reason about the resulting conformational shape and binding properties.  And binding process is self-catalyzing so that we do not need to invent a ribosome to bind these components.  Note that unlike the biological model we are not copying one structure to generate another, we are using this tree layout to program the eventual shape.

FUNCTIONAL COMPNENTS 
Each of the lowest level constituents has an interface for a functional component.  Since each leaf in the tree contains only a single constituent with a single interface, no addressing is required. Any molecule that fits within the structure, and can bind to this interface, can be "programmed" into the structure at any/all locations desired.  This ability and the ability to program complex shapes thru aggregation is the magic of the approach.

USES 
Just some bullet points here since we are primarily interested in feasibility.
- Programmable nano-scale shapes.
- Localized reactions.  By holding specific molecules in adjacent locations
  and catalyzing their reaction only after the 3D structure is complete
  we can control the bindings that occur at different points within the
  structure differently.
- Among other things this could allow electrically "wiring" molecular
  components in a programmable grid.



MINIMAL REQUIRED PROPERTIES

Our claim in the proposal is that the requirements for this method are modest given the tremendous power conferred by universally programmable 3-D grids.  Thus this to layout all of the requirement for the approach described below as early as possible, even though the reasons for the specific will only be apparent after considering the specific proposal below.  The reader will be concerned with the feasibility of the whole rather than the details.  So we list the requirements first.

Aggregation Requirements 
(A1) Many millions of aggregation chambers must be efficiently constructed
     and laid out using lithography techniques. 
(A2) Aggregation must occur in a fluid flow that prohibits "backward"
     movement of components down the aggregation tree. 
(A3) Does not allow uncombined subcomponents to continue to subsequent
     stages in the aggregation until they are merged. 
(A4) Builds in feedback to ensure that subcomponent densities at each
     level remain somewhat balanced (limit unbounded differential production
     from lower levels in the tree 
(A5) Aggregation must be very robust.  Even a very small probability of
     unintended binding conformations will result in useless components
     since each component is the result of an immense number of aggregations.
(A6) Aggregation must occur over a large range of component sizes since it will 
     span from individual components up to components containing millions of
     constituent components.

Stacking Component Requirements 
(C1) Components can produced through chemical process. 
(C2) The components (later called hex plates) must stack (bind rigidly) in a
     unique conformation along their backbone using a self-catalyzing reaction. (C3) They must tessellate in three space. 
(C4) They must have about approximately six variants to their stacking surfaces
     with different steric constraints which ensure that only matching surfaces
     can stack. 
(C5) The backbone for each of the stacking components must have the same
     standard binding interface allowing combination with any of the 
     functional components.

Functional Component Requirements 
(F1) Components can produced through chemical process. 
(F2) The functional components must bind to the standard interface above. 
(F3) Functional components control addressing (unique binding) in directions
     perpendicular to the stacking direction.  The design below requires
     approximately five variants of these components that bind or 
     sterically prohibit binding to adjacent stacks of components. 
(F4) Functional components differentiate the final structure built.  For
     example if we are designing a logic circuit then functional components
     will need to be created that perform as an electrical conductor, or as
     a transistor.  This only interaction required by the structure however
     is that this new component bind to the standard interface (or bind to a
     molecule that itself binds to the interface)

The requirements on stacking components are clearly not trivial to simultaneously satisfy.  The same can be said for the functional components.  Nonetheless both sets of requirements seem to be well within the bounds of complexity possible (and routinely solved) by current molecular design techniques.

The aggregation process described above is unique, since the method employed for addressing described here is novel.  Thus we believe this part of the approach has the greatest degree of uncertainty.  The requirement that the aggregation tree be laid out by lithography to form a completely passively controlled reaction that spans millions of reactions is daunting.  On the other hand, the control required at each step is very course, by lithography standards.  We merely require that right components flow to the right places, all molecular level interactions are controlled by tradition chemical reactions.  This is the novel and crucial aspect of this approach.  We are able to program which components (from a pre-enumerated fix set) are placed within a universal grid on a nano scale, without requiring that we be able to directly manipulate on the nano scale.  All programming occurs in controlling the flow of components at the leaves, and the scale of these "pipes" can be as large as we wish. They are only constrained by the packing density we desire in order to make the entire tree of millions of interactions manageable.

A POSSIBLE IMPLEMENTATION
This sketch of an implementation is given to provide a sense of how such an method might be attacked.  The goal of the sketch is to allow the reader to conclude one of the following:
(1) Significant constraints are missing from the list above that makes the endeavor impractical.
(2) Stacking or Functional components as described cannot be created.
(3) Aggregation cannot be accomplished.
(4) Such an approach is practical, but not important enough to be undertaken.
(5) It will work.

We are interested in the reader opinion on this question.

THE AGGREGATION STEP
Below is a possible aggregation tank setup.  The goal of the aggregation tank as described above is to control the aggregation of a pair of constituent components. 


     +-----------------+
     |                 |
     |AGGREGATION TANK |
     |                 |
     |                 +---o---o---o---o---o---o---o--------
     |
     |                 >   ^   ^   ^   ^   ^   ^   ^    OUT    <-- SEPERATOR
     |
     |                 +---.---.- -.---.- -.---.- -.---+----
     |                 |                               |       <-- GAP
     |           +-----+-----------v---v---v---v---v---+
-----+           | ooo     <       o   o   o   o   o   |       <-- RETURN
 IN-1 >          |     +-------------------------------+
-----+           |  ^  |
     |                 |    |
     |               | |    | Gravity
-----+               | |    v
 IN-2 >              | |
-----+               | |
     |               | +------------------------------
     |               |                                         <-- WASTE
     +---------------+---------------------------------


The two sub-components flow in through IN-1 and IN-2.  They spontaneously combine in pairs into a unique combined shape in the mix chamber. Both combined and uncombined components flow out along the SEPERATOR.  The "o" along the top of channel 1 represent fluid sinks, and the "." in bottom represent fluid sources.  Both sources and sinks flow out behind the factory surface (the surface shown in the diagram) and they are much smaller than the components.  Their purpose is to set up a constant upward flow.  This flow is strong enough to force the larger combined components up to the top of CHANNEL-1, but the uncombined components diffuse faster than the vertical flow so they can fall to the bottom of the separator.  This allows them with some probability to flow through the GAP and into the RETURN.  Once in the return they cannot flow back into the GAP since the flow between the gap and return (shown as "v"s is to strong).  The sink at the end of the return pulls the uncombined components back into the mix chamber.  The "ooo" sink also pulls components in the chamber up, but not so strongly that they cannot diffuse away. By making the separator longer we get an exponential decrease in the probability that an uncombined sub-component can pass through the separator.

The output from Mix chambers at level i flow in to Mix chambers along IN-1 or IN-2 at level i+1.  In the case that an uncombined sub-component does pass thru the separator it will either fail to combined a level i+1 or i+2 by the design of the matching.  Thus it will get "stuck" in one of those mix chambers continually being returned by the RETURN.  This incomplete chunk will eventually fall into a slow flowing waste line that recycles all components that falls in.  Correct sub-components will also fall into this waste channel but they have a much lower chance of doing so since they will not be "stuck" in this mix chamber with nothing to combine with.  (A good bit more of analysis of probability of failure is needed since a even very small error rates could still render these very complex combinations useless.)

NOTE:  A concern that I have no satisfactory answer for is the inevitable problem that the mixing components will not necessarily arrive in a aggregation tank in exactly equal concentrations, this inequality will build over time.  Thus the feedback requirement A4.

 
THE FOUR AGGREGATION TYPES
At a high level all of the aggregation steps must simply combine sub-components in a unique rigid conformation.  At a more detailed level, combinations along different axes will be control by slightly different uses of two basic binding types.  The first is stacking of the hex plates and the second is bindings between the functional components between to stacks of hex plates.  Even though we are reusing two basic chemical bonds to form all types of aggregations we split the aggregations into four distinct types because the concerns with each type of aggregations are different.

Here are the four along with the shapes before and after the aggregation: 
Z-AXIS    AGGREGATION:  single hexes        ===>  a stack of hexes 
X-AXIS    AGGREGATION:  a stack of hexes    ===>  a 2D-plate of hexes 
Y-AXIS    AGGREGATION:  2D-plates of hexes  ===>  a cube of hexes 
IRREGULAR AGGREGATION:  planar surfaces     ===>  irregular shapes

 Each of the binding types will be described in terms of the basic building block the cell, also called a hex plate, and this is shown below.



--------------------  A Hex Plate in a Hex Plate Lattice  ------------------- 

       ###       \             /       ###
       ###        O=====+=====O        ###
       ###       /      ^      \       ###       /
        |       2       |       1       |       /
 \      v      /       ###       \      v      /               ^
  +-----+-----+        ###        +-----+-----+                |
 /             \       ###       /             \               |Y-axis
                3       |       4               \              |
                 \      |      /                 \             +------->
                  O=====+=====O                                 X-axis
                 /      ^      \
                /       |       \ 
   ####     = The backbone that connects hex plates along the z-axis
   O====O   = The stacking plates interface to adjacent plate on the z-axis
   1,2      = X-axis interfaces between hexes (function plates use this)
   3,4      = Y-axis interfaces between hexes

The hex plates stack along the Z-axis (away from the page) by connecting their backbone atoms which is shown as "###" in the figure.  They form a row by connecting adjacent cells using their X-axis interfaces 1 and 2. Note by the orientation markers "^" and "v" that every other hex faces positively or negatively along the Y-axis.  This ensures that only interfaces 1 and 2 are used in binding a row.  Similarly it also ensures that an entire row can be bound to another row by many connections at interfaces 3 and 4.

Each hex plate is composed of a stacking plate on top (along the z-axis) of a functional plate.  These plates are bound together along the backbone. Any of the 6 stacking plates can be combined with any of the 15 functional plates yielding a fixed set of 90 hex types. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Z-AXIS AGGREGATION
This aggregation type is the only aggregation that uses the stacking plate interfaces along the Z-axis.  This first step is different because the sub-components (individual hexes) are not yet complex enough to use many simultaneous binding points to ensure unique combinations, thus we use the following stacking plate types for control.  Stacking plates are labeled "AB", "AC", "AD", "AE", "AF", and "AX". The A surface of an AD plate must be met with an A surface of some other plate, the B surface of AB must be met with the B surface of another AB, and so on.  The X surface is a terminator, it does not bind.

Thus merging an AB & AC must yield a BA-AC stacking along the Z-axis. In the middle of this process would combine a D...E chain with an E...F chain yielding an E...F chain.  Later E...F, and E...G would combine to yield F...G.  Below is a list of many aggregations at on end of the chain. Each number represents the level in the aggregation tree where that binding occurred.  Note that A bindings are the first level, B at the second and so on.  Thus a particular surface will only find a mate at one level in the tree, and since components are not allowed to flow backward down other sub-trees each surface can only bind in one mix tank.

XA 1 AB 2 BA 1 AC 3 CA 1 AB 2 BA 1 AD 4 DA 1 AB 2 BA 1 AC 3 CA 1 AB 2 BA 1 AE 5

The pattern above is exponential thus six binding surfaces A thru F is sufficient to complete one cascade of up to 64 uniquely addressed hex plates. The resulting structure of stacked plates is called a pin.



X-AXIS AGGREGATION
Each pin is a stack of up to 64 hexes and each hex plate is composed of a stacking plate bound to a functional plate along the hex.  Several functional types control x-axis bindings.  These functional plate are represented by a string like "+-++" This means that interface 2 is negative and interfaces 1, 3, and 4 are positive.  A positive interface is sterically constrained not to lie against another positive interface, and negative interfaces chemically bond with positive interfaces once they are activated and are placed adjacent to them.

Once stack merging is complete all "-" interfaces can be safely activated. The unique 10-bit signature along each interface of a pin ensures that it can only bind in one orientation to one other specific pin. (We use 10-bits to control the x-axis and another 10 for the y-axis,
 this leaves 44 sites of the 64, to program the logic of the 3D-structure.)

One possible set of 5 control plates might be "++++" "--++" "+--+" "++--" and "-++-".  With care this set can be used to simultaneously constrain the pins so that they never stack along the Y-axis and have unique parings along the X-axis.


Y-AXIS AGGREGATION
Now we are merging plates of up to 64 by 64 hexes along the y-axis.  This is controlled by interfaces 3 and 4 much in the same way that X-AXIS merging is accomplished.  Because these are surfaces however, the porous nature of hexes becomes important.  Fluid is able to flow into the plates to allow them to bind.
These 3-D arrangements of up to 64 by 64 by 64 hexes are referred to as chunks.


IRREGULAR AGGREGATION 
Once the binding surfaces are 2 dimensional, the degree of specificity possible is so large that addressing across the entire structure can easily be made unique by controlling the thousands of bits contained on each surface.  The emerging problem now is not addressing but one of guidance.  As the structure get larger the probability that they align precisely enough to permit binding drops to zero.  Thus the resulting surfaces must be controlled so as to guide the alignment of large component at a macro scale so that they can bind on a micro scale.  Indeed at very large scales it may be necessary to provide tapered surfaces, and other macro surface feature to guide the process, as well as
Undifferentiated regions rather than single points for bindings to occur, thus eliminating the precise bond level alignment at the larger scales.  Because we are programming these components bottom up from individual components we have very fine-grained control over the shape and composition of these larger surfaces.  This means that we have considerable freedom to define these surfaces as needed to facilitate correct unique binding.  This problem (unlike the constraints on a single hex plate) are very under constrained, there will be many different techniques one might use to yield effective addressing at this grain size, and all will be accomplished by simply programming the tree at lower levels.

Because of the uniqueness of every surface at this level of complexity, there will be less need for binary style aggregation.  At this point, non-rectilinear shapes can be auto-constructed by mixing many chunks that are globally addressed to a unique binding location.  Some control will still be needed to ensure that binding occurs in layers so that internal addresses for chunks do not get covered before they are filled, but generally much less control will be needed since each component is physically capable of only binding in a single location.

Irregular aggregation along the X and Y-axes can employ the same binding sites 1,2,3,4 used before.  Irregular binding along the Z-axis also uses these binding sites, but does so by designing the chunks with precisely located fingers (pins) that protrude from one chunk into holes programmed into the matching chunk.
Once in these holes the 1,2,3,4 interfaces between finger and hole hexes are adjacent.  When they bind, the chunks themselves are bound.












