Syverson


- Jason has the high ground here.  He can move forward in any case, Dan must 
  accept somewhat less than his value, or strike out on his own.
  It may still be worth it for Dan, if the certainties he gains here outweigh 
  the loss in value, and if his synergies with Seige mean he is worth *more*
  in that context than he would be in his own context.


- Any deal is largely a win for the Seige in that it is moving equity from Jason
  to Dan in a way that still keeps Jason engaged.  Any increases in equity are
  simply gravy.  but to Jason it is a different story.  He looses equity to gain
  this potential value.  

- I want to structure is so no matter what happens Jason is better off.  e.g.

    Jason% (w Dan)                   Jason% (w/o Dan)
   -------------------------   >>   ----------------------
    Jason+company+Dan growth         Jason+company growth


- I want to ensure this is two ways.  
  FIRST, Dan's percent (as assessed by Jason) is set *small* enough that
  not only is Jason better off (left is bigger than right) but that it is
  bigger by a margin.

  SECOND, Dan's percent is assessed on an ongoing basis, so it is all upside
  for Jason, and limited downside.  If Dan is seven levels of awesome, then
  Dan reaps the reward as limited by his percentage, and Jason reaps $2 for 
  every $1 that Dan reaps from his awesomeness.  On the flip side, Dan's 
  equity does not track upward if the right hand side is GREATER.  He may
  or may not leave under these circumstances, but either way Jason's losses
  are containted to a min percentage (which I would argue we can all be 
  confident DanO is delivering or he is gone.  (I would be happy to put that 
  in some written form.  e.g. you could kick me out at anytime and vesting stops
  where ever you kicked me out.  I wont want to be there if you dont think
  I am the guys delivering the goods.)


* Summary:
  * I want high confidence that this was at least a win for Jason, which means it must
    have some margin of overshoot so that he is not accidentally 'loosing' just because
    of the way we are measuring things.
  * Second I want to set expectations at the LOWEST level which ensure that the criteria
    above is true.  Essentailly I want to join Seige with confidence that if things are 
    happening as I expect, then I am saturating our scroing criteria.  e.g. neither Dan
    nor Jason are fretting much because whatever level Dan is contributing it is *way* 
    above the level depicted by the inequality above, so my percentage is just maxed out
    without alot of careful analysis.

  this is good for all (except possibly me) as it means that I am at least delivering 
  my given percentage in crea


So 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

JASON

10%
 5%
 1%
--
16%       ((        ))
30%


Jason:
   some logistics.  I am in another meeting until 5:30pm, and that meeting will be on the red line (Friendship Heights)
   Where should we meet?  (I can take a taxi to minimize time, or you can even catch me up there, depending on where you will be)


This is an important enough conversation that I did not want to rush it, but
at the same time, I don't want it to lag beyond this visit, either.  
I have given much thought to how/if we can work together.

I am excited by the possiblity.  Working with you opens possibilities that 
I might not have access to otherwise, and it would be just plain fun. 
One can tell, when a certain person will have a right energy for you.
In your case you have a right energy for me.  

--dan





Some Soul Searching for both of us.

We are both leaving DARPA as PMs of note.  And simply being a PM is already notable.
We both have the maniacal "hair on fire" drive, with the techical, visionary, management,
and leadership chops to back that attitude up.  We are not looking for good next opportunity.
There are a thousand of those in easy reach.  We are looking for the possibilty of a 
remarkable play; one that puts our particular skills and energy to the test.


You have found yours!   Congratulations.   Really, it is an achievement.


The question is, could it be mine too?  There is no question that this would be a good 
option for me, but for the reasons listed above, a "good" option is just not enough.  My next job
should *require* things that are really specific to me.  Now, at some level, you clearly 
don't *need* me.  Who knows what the future brings, but you have a great plan without me.  
Also, I dont believe that you really viewed your company as a partnership with another
strong contributor (with a significant chunk of equity), rather as a more centrally run show.  
Makes alot of sense, and that may be the show stopper right there.  
(If it is, I am still happy to contribute, and collaborate as time permits, who knows what the future brings)


Still I have a glimse of a role for me that is so juicy, so important to the mission of Siege
Technology, that perhaps there is a way forward.  I am going to outline that role below, but
just so you see where this is going, I will get to the punch line here:
I believe that you and I together, will grow at more than twice the speed that you will do
on your own.  It is not that I believe I am better than you, it is that I believe that we 
are both very good, and the places where we are extrodianray, complement each other in a 
way that could truely kick ass.

Now if (and this is an if that I have yet to PROVE to you) it is true that our growth curve 
does turn out to be more than double what you would have achieve on your own.  A 10% share to 
your 60+% share will simply not be workable.  It is not even in the ball park.  And IF 
(again a big if), we as a team will more than double your output alone, you would 
be foolish to requrire such a low level, and end up going it alone.



So we should have a conversation.  What I like about this conversation, is that we
both enter with great alternatives, and so can not be bruised if it turns out that 
I was wrong about how I would fit in, or even if I am right, but you just dont see it that way.
Anyway it turns out, it will all be good.



If year after year, 
my contribution is responsible for more than 50% of our growth 

 be
more than double the rate that we would have without me, then a 





option in here.  I am not sure about it, and I need your help to understand if the option
I see, is really a plausible one.
-