

               Data centers worldwide now consume more energy annually than Sweden. And the amount of energy required is growing, says Jonathan Koomey, a scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. From 2000 to 2005, the aggregate electricity use by data centers doubled. The cloud, he calculates, consumes 1 to 2 percent of the world's electricity. [SNIP] Power looms larger than space in the data center's future -- the data-center group Afcom predicts that in the next five years, more than 90 percent of companies' data centers will be interrupted at least once because of power constrictions. As James Hamilton of Amazon Web Services observed recently at a Google-hosted data-center-efficiency summit, there is no Moore's Law for power -- while servers become progressively more powerful (and cheaper to deploy) and software boosts server productivity, the cost of energy (as well as water, needed for cooling) stays constant or rises. Uptime's Brill notes that while it once took 30 to 50 years for electricity costs to match the cost of the server itself, the electricity on a low-end server will now exceed the server cost itself in less than four years -- which is why the geography of the cloud has migrated to lower-rate areas.

       This practical challenge calls to mind the Blue Brain <http://bluebrain.epfl.ch/>  project, that epic attempt to simulate consciousness on a supercomputer which Jonah Lehrer wrote about in 2007. While Henry Markram's team has demonstrated, in principle, that it's possible to simulate a neocortical circuit from the bottom up, the challenge is finding the computers to put multiple circuits together:

               "We have already shown that the model can scale up," Markram says. "What is holding us back now are the computers." The numbers speak for themselves. Markram estimates that in order to accurately simulate the trillion synapses in the human brain, you'd need to be able to process about 500 petabytes of data (peta being a million billion, or 10 to the fifteenth power). That's about 200 times more information than is stored on all of Google's servers. (Given current technology, a machine capable of such power would be the size of several football fields.) Energy consumption is another huge problem. The human brain requires about 25 watts of electricity to operate. Markram estimates that simulating the brain on a supercomputer with existing microchips would generate an annual electrical bill of about $3 billion . But if computing speeds continue to develop at their current exponential pace, and energy efficiency improves, Markram believes that he'll be able to model a complete human brain on a single machine in ten years or less.

               For now, however, the mind is still the ideal machine. Those intimidating black boxes from IBM in the basement are barely sufficient to model a thin slice of rat brain. The nervous system of an invertebrate exceeds the capabilities of the fastest supercomputer in the world. "If you're interested in computing," Schürmann says, "then I don't see how you can't be interested in the brain. We have so much to learn from natural selection. It's really the ultimate engineer."

       This is yet another reason to study the human brain: our electrical microchips, with their fatty membranes and ion pumps, are an ideal computational tool. Human computers may never become conscious, but if our need for data continues to grow at an exponential rate (and why wouldn't it?) then our machines will need to become more metabolically efficient. And that's a problem that the cortex has already solved.

