Distance Learning 

 The distance learning research program focuses on tools and methodology 
for tracking, 
 facilitating, and directing group problem-solving in distance learning 
classes. Synchronize the 
strategy with Peter Fairweather, Colin Harrison and Tom Confio (Research), 
James Sharpe (VP, Learning Services) , 
Dick Vigilante (JNET), Robert Weintraub (Global Services Institute), 
MindSpan business unit, and 
LearningSpace product area. 

 
 Applied Cognitive Learning Theory: Develop methodologies for applying 
cognitive theories
       of learning, such as cognitive apprenticeship and collaborative 
learning,  
       to the workplace (Project Executives in IGS), distance learning 
       in the university (JNET curriculum), and mathematics instruction 
(algebra). Perform
       observations and experiments. Anticipated 2001 Impact: 3 
publications, influence on 
       Global Services, influence on JNET course design, requirements  for 
future tools. 
 
   Discussion Management: Improve ability of people (teachers/students, 
trainers/trainees,
    managers/workers) to understand, participate, and learn from postings 
of others in 
    large, active discussion databases by developing discussion management 
tools. 
    Anticipated Impact: 2 publications, 1 patent, software asset, 
potential product 
        w/Blackboard/Lotus/others, use in JNET classes, potential use in 
Global Services. 
       
   Embedded Application Assesment: Improve ability of people 
(teachers,trainers,managers) 
     to understand the usage of desktop computer applications by (remote) 
users (students, 
     trainees, workers) to inform assessment of skills and problem-solving 
strategies by
     developing embedded application assessment tools. Anticipated 2001 
Impact: 
     1 publication, 1 patent, software asset. 

   Synchronous Collaboration: Improve ability of groups of students to 
collaborate synchronously
    and remotely together by developing the Jam toolkit and collaborative 
application 
    prototypes. Anticipated 2001 Impact: 1 patent, 1 publication, 
prototypes. 

Organizational Learning 

   The organizational learning research program focuses on tools for 
understanding 
dynamic and often implicit aspects of organizations. Synchronize the 
strategy with Peter Fairweather, 
Alan Marwick, Colin Harrison, Bill Cody , Bob Mack (Research), 
IBM Human Resources, Dave Neubold (Lotus),  Rod Cowan, Bart Emmanuel, and 
Eric Vaaj (Global Services, KM)

  Visualization: Develop new visualizations of actor networks relating 
people and 
     artifacts (e.g., intellectual capital such as documents, software, or 
ideas they  
     create.) Visual properties of these graphs make underlying global 
analyses explicit. 
     Analysis will uncover key knowledge producers, consumers, and 
"brokers", important 
     collaborations between individuals and groups, and influential 
artifacts. 
     Visualization tool for Intellectual Capital (e.g., patents) in 
Research. Antcipated
     2001 Impact:  2 publications, software asset, limited use in 
Research. 

   Machine Learning: Develop new algorithms for classifying text from 
publicly-available
     elecronic sources, such as Usenet newsgroups. Test ability to 
transfer of the 
     inferred classification rules to other domains, such as e-mail. 
Expertise location 
      system for Global Services developers. 
      Anticipated 2001 Impact: 2 patents, 2 publications, software asset. 
limited use in 
      Global Services. 
 
Execute 
 
   Distance Learning
 
      Discussion Management:    

	Further develop discussion summarization tool (benchmarking with 
humans, 
        discourse model, hierarchical searching/highlighting). Generalize 
GUI using 
        Java Server Pages. Generalize data access with API and integrate 
with 
        Blackboard.com. Deploy to JNET schools for Fall 2001 courses. 

    Embedded Application Assessment: 

	Develop general purpose event capture and analysis tool. Apply to 
the 
        software used in at least one Distance Learning class. Develop 
algorithms 
        for event analysis. Provide statistics and reports. 

   Orgnizational Learning: 

        Visualization: Develop prototype for one database, including data 
access, analysis, 
        and visualization. Test with target users. Refine analysis and 
        visualization environment into reuseable tool. 
 
        Machine Learning: Develop scanner and feature extraction. Apply 
and refine 
         text classification algorithms for labelled data (e.g., support 
vector machines) 
         to sparse features. Test use of various contextual features. 
Create reuseable 
         machine learning tool.  Investigate cross-learning to e-mail. 
Investigate learning 
         of expertise categories (e.g., java expert/novice). Based on 
results, build 
         expertise location system. Test with users in Global Services who 
are developers 
         needing narrow technical expertise. 

Team 

   Distance Learning: 

   Work closely with Blackboard.com and JNET clients on requirements. 
   Field test with JNET university professors. Deploy Discussion 
Summarizer to 
   Georgetown University server. Provide demonstrations of Learning Trail 
working 
   on software for university-level database course. Presentation to 
WiscNet. 
   Hire a summer student in interactive Web technologies and 
collaboration. Continued 
   remote mentoring and collaboration with Amy Wu at Michigan U. 
Participation in 
   Web PIC. Participated in NextWeb Transformation Group. 

   Organizational Learning: 

       Meetings with Lotus and IGS/KM team. Presentations to intellectual 
Capital 
    Managment executives in Global Services. Presentations to IBM lawyers. 
    University and professional recruiting for machine learning and 
visualization people. 
    Hiring Mark Reid. 


