
Subj:  $1400 Spacious master bedroom available Nov-16th.

THE APARTMENT:
I have a great two bedroom apartment with the larger bedroom (15x10) for rent.  The bedroom has a huge closet down one entire wall of the room.  The apartment itself is clean with tile kitchen floors and nicely painted textured walls.  The apartment gets lots of light, and is quite spacious.  I have a friendly, clean, non-invasive cat.  Most of my stuff is still on its way from the east coast, so while your room is nicely furnished with mirror, dresser, and full sized bed, the apartment itself is sparsely appointed.  

ABOUT ME:  
I am the CTO for a funded startup in Mountain View, so I will spend a large fraction of the week away from home.  I am a professional, very clean, no-drama, no-drugs, and looking for the same.  I am easy going and an extrovert -- quite possible we end up friends.  Still I am primarily looking for a roommate not a best friend here.  I am white/straight, but enjoy diversity in orientations, genders, races and cultures, so all are very welcome.

THE LOCATION: 
We are 2.5 blocks from BART and have two muni stops right on our corner, so it is ideal for transportation, and being one block from the south part of mission and one block off of Valencia means there are many very good restaurants, and some modestly prices restaurants very close.  

If interested let me know and tell me about you.
Thank you. 
--dan





Looking for a housemate who is straightforward, honest and kind, someone who is community-living conscious and mindful toward others, and will participate in keeping the house clean, and someone who is a team player and who has experience living with other people in a housemate situation. Someone who is organized, practical, low-impact, grounded, and generally on-the-ball. Goes without saying that you will pay rent and bills on time.




 plus TV/office room with all amenities included. Nicely furnachure, coozy,airy,lots of plant, gorgeous clean non invasive"Cat". It would be for the months of November and in to Dicember. I am looking for a quite, responsible, relax,professional,person who knows how to be orgonize and who enjoys a home as a place for tranquility and harmony. 
The room is quite nice( the best room in the house) freshly painted, nice closet, gorgeous window, the most comfortible bed, night table,etc. The partement has 4 huge windows, very home like; lots of plants, nice furnerchure, great Tv room/office on the second floor. Bathroom is big and kitchen is very comfortible and fun to cook in, since it is very open. Medora The Cat, she is nice,keeps to her self. 
I am a professional man about to turn 50! very busy at work and very fulfield in life. Love having a clean place to come home to, so I am very orgonize. I am going to re finace , so at this time I consider it prudent to find the right roommate, if only for so long. maybe we hit it off and I could extend the welcome longer than one month.
The building is close to every trasportation there is. i feel it is the hart of the city.Close to every where you want to go to; Castro, Hayes/Civic Center, Down Town, Mission and South of Market
You coud be a local person or someone here temporarilly. Love people of every culture or orientation. I am fom Colombia. 
If interested let me know and tell me about you.
Thank you. 